---
published: false
---
## Adventures in Code Club

One of the goals I had when finished up at work was to start a Code Club at my kids' school. For various reasons (schools are harder to organise than you think!), it took me a little longer than expected, but I've been doing it now for 2 school Terms. Everyone I talk to about it finds it interesting, especially people with kids, so it's about time I wrote a little about it.

I've learned a lot over the last few months I think I have a series of posts to write on the topic, but most people I speak to, even developers, have still not heard of Code Clubs, so I thought I'd start with an intro into what they are and why they're important.

Some things I'd like to write about in the future are:
- Tips for making Code Clubs effective, and my lessons learned so far
- Why Scrach is great for learning, and not just a 'play language'
- Progressing from Scratch to Python (I'm just about to do this now).

So.. back to the basics. What is a Code Club?
Code Club Australia <link> is a registered charity, which came out of the parent company. <link>. They help teachers and volunteers setup Code Clubs for kids, in schools, libraries, or anywhere that is suitable. 

Talk about link to Raspberry Pi.

The most important thing they provide are the materials for teaching: <link>. These start with Scratch projects, such as animations and games, but they also have Python, HTML/CSS, SonicPi, Raspberry Pi SenseHAt, etc..

One of the restrictions of using the materials is that Code Clubs must be free. This is a great idea.. *more*, Some people suggested charging, but I don't want it to be elite. 

My experience with setup - no of kids, etc.
50/50 girls.
No real experience with scratch, except playing with projects beforehand.

My kid - hard to engage outside one on one, but easy to do in class with mates.

This is a great UK video about how the Code Club operates ,

Why it's great.. all kids learn a lot, e.g. co-ordinates, etc. for Y3s. Hugely engaged in teaching. The one day they look forward to going to school. Can't wait to go to Code Club.

First sessions.. logging in, etc. Everyone was stuck with basic computer issues.. soon got over it. Constant hands up.

Now.. I can walk around and help people when they need it. Sit with people and see what they are doing.


Hopefully you've got a better idea about what it

Enter text in [Markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/). Use the toolbar above, or click the **?** button for formatting help.
